 In Germany, people are allowed to say something openly against the government because...

— Freedom of religion applies here.
— people pay taxes.
— people have the right to vote.
— ✓ Freedom of opinion applies here.
 What is compatible with the German Basic Law?

— the corporal punishment
- the torture
- the death penalty
— ✓ the fine
What does not belong to statutory social insurance?

— the statutory pension insurance
— ✓ life insurance
— unemployment insurance
— long-term care insurance
Trade unions are associations of …

— teenagers.
— ✓ Employees.
— pensioners.
— Employers.
How can you be honored in the Federal Republic of Germany if you have made a special achievement in a political, economic, cultural, intellectual or social area? With the …

— federal eagle
— ✓ Federal Cross of Merit
- Patriotic Order of Merit
— Honorary title “Hero of the German Democratic Republic”
What is referred to as a "traffic light coalition" in Germany? Cooperation …

— the parliamentary groups of the CDU and CSU
— ✓ SPD, FDP and Bündnis 90/Die Grünen in one government
— by CSU, Die LINKE and Bündnis 90/Die Grünen in one government
— the parliamentary groups of the CDU and SPD
A woman in Germany loses her job. What must not be the reason for this dismissal?

— The woman has been ill for a long time and is unable to work.
— The wife was often late for work.
— The woman does private things during working hours.
— ✓ The woman is having a child and her boss knows it.
What is the task of election workers in Germany?

— You help old people to vote in the voting booth.
— You write the election notices before the election.
— They pass on interim results to the media.
— ✓ You count the votes after the end of the election.
In Germany, volunteer poll workers help with the elections. What is the task of election workers?

— They help children and old people to vote.
— They write cards and letters indicating the polling station.
— They pass on interim results to journalists.
— ✓ You count the votes after the end of the election.
For how many years is the Bundestag elected in Germany?

- 2 years
— ✓ 4 years
— 6 years
— 8 years
In a federal election in Germany, anyone can vote who...

— lives in the Federal Republic of Germany and wishes to vote.
— ✓ is a citizen of the Federal Republic of Germany and is at least 18 years old.
— has lived in the Federal Republic of Germany for at least 3 years.
— is a citizen of the Federal Republic of Germany and is at least 21 years old.
How often are there usually federal elections in Germany?

— every three years
— ✓ every four years
— every five years
— every six years
 What is the constitution of the Federal Republic of Germany called?

— ✓ Basic Law
- Federal Constitution
— Code of Laws
— Constitutional Treaty
For how many years is the Bundestag elected in Germany?

- 2 years
— 3 years
— ✓ 4 years
- 5 years
In Germany you can vote. What does that mean?

— ✓ All German nationals are allowed to vote if they have reached the minimum age.
— Only married people can vote.
— Only people with a permanent job may vote.
— All residents in Germany must vote.
The elections in germany are …

- special.
— ✓ secret.
— job-related.
— gender dependent.
Elections in Germany are won by the party that …

— ✓ gets the most votes.
— most men voted by majority.
— got the most votes from workers.
— received the most first votes for their candidate for chancellor.
Participating in democratic elections in Germany is...

- a duty.
— ✓ a right.
— a compulsion.
- a burden.
What does "active voting rights" mean in Germany?

— One can be elected.
— You have to vote.
— ✓ You can choose.
— You have to go to the counting of the votes.
If you are allowed to vote in a federal election in Germany, that means...

— active electoral campaign.
— active electoral process.
— active election campaign.
— ✓ Active voting rights.
What percentage of the second votes must parties get at least to be elected to the German Bundestag?

— 3%
— 4%
— ✓ 5%
— 6%
What regulates the right to vote in Germany?

— Whoever is allowed to choose must choose.
— Everyone who wants can vote.
— Those who do not vote lose the right to vote.
— ✓ Anyone who is allowed to vote can vote.
Elections in Germany are free. What does that mean?

— All convicted criminals are not allowed to vote.
— If I want to vote, my employer has to give me time off.
— ✓ Each person can decide without coercion whether they want to vote and who they want to vote for.
— I am free to choose where I want to vote.
 A party in the German Bundestag wants to abolish freedom of the press. Is that possible?

— Yes, if more than half of the members of the Bundestag are in favor of it.
— Yes, but two-thirds of the members of the Bundestag have to be in favor of that.
— ✓ No, because freedom of the press is a fundamental right. It cannot be abolished.
— No, because only the Federal Council can abolish freedom of the press.
The electoral system in Germany is a …

— Census suffrage.
— Three-class franchise.
— ✓ Majority and proportional representation.
— universal male suffrage.
A party wants to be in the German Bundestag. However, it must have a minimum share of votes. This means …

— ✓ 5% hurdle.
— Admission limit.
— Underlying.
— Policy.
What principle are elections in Germany subject to? Elections in Germany are...

— ✓ free, equal, secret.
— open, safe, free.
— closed, equal, safe.
— safe, open, voluntary.
What is the "5% hurdle" in Germany?

— Voting rules in the Bundestag for small parties
— Attendance control in the Bundestag for votes
— ✓ Minimum percentage of votes to get into Parliament
— Attendance check in the Bundesrat for votes
The federal election in Germany is the election...

— of the Federal Chancellor.
— the parliaments of the countries.
— ✓ of Parliament for Germany.
— of the Federal President.
In a democracy, a function of regular elections is...

— to force citizens to cast their votes.
— ✓ To allow the change of government according to the will of the electoral majority.
- maintain existing laws in the country.
— to empower the poor.
What do citizens entitled to vote in Germany get before an election?

— ✓ an election notification from the municipality
— an election permit from the Federal President
— a notification from the Federal Assembly
— a notification from the parish office
Why is there the 5% hurdle in the electoral law of the Federal Republic of Germany? They exist because...

— the programs of many small parties have a lot in common.
— Citizens can lose their bearings with many small parties.
— ✓ many small parties make it difficult to form a government.
— the small parties do not have enough money to pay the politicians.
Members of Parliament who are elected by the citizens are called...

— ✓ MEPs.
— Chancellors.
— Ambassadors.
— Prime Ministers.
The people vote in Germany...

— the Federal Chancellor.
— the prime minister of a federal state.
— ✓ the Bundestag.
- the Federal President / the Federal President.
 In Parliament, the term “opposition” stands for…

— the ruling parties.
— ✓ all member of parliaments not belonging to the governing party/parties.
— the group with the most member of parliaments.
— all parties that managed to reach the 5% threshold in the last election.
Which ballot paper would be valid in a federal election?
— ✓ 1
— 2
— 3
— 4
In Germany, a mayor is …

— the principal of a school.
— the head of a bank.
— ✓ the head of a community.
— the leader of a party.
Many people in Germany do voluntary work in their free time. What does that mean?

— They work as soldiers.
— ✓ You work voluntarily and unpaid in clubs and associations.
— You work in the federal government.
— You work in a hospital and earn money.
What is allowed in federal and state elections in Germany?

— The husband votes for his wife.
— ✓ You can vote by post.
— You can cast your vote by telephone on election day.
— Children from the age of 14 can vote.
They want to get rid of the bus line you always take to work. What can you do to get the bus route?

— ✓ I am taking part in a citizens' initiative for the maintenance of the bus route or I am founding an initiative myself.
— I become a member of a sports club and practice cycling.
— I am contacting the tax office because, as a taxpayer, I have a right to the bus route.
— I am writing a letter to the forestry office of the municipality.
Who do the unions represent in Germany?

- large companies
- small businesses
— self-employed
— ✓ Employees
You go to the labor court in Germany at …

— incorrect ancillary cost statement.
— ✓ Unjustified dismissal by your boss.
— Problems with the neighbors.
— Difficulties after a traffic accident.
Which court is competent in Germany for conflicts in the world of work?

— the family court
— the criminal court
— ✓ the Labor Court
- the district court
What can I do in Germany if my employer wrongly dismissed me?

— keep working and be friendly to the boss
— conduct dunning proceedings against the employer
— ✓ Bring an action for protection against unfair dismissal
— Report the employer to the police
When will there be a court case in Germany? If someone …

— converted to another religion.
— ✓ has committed a criminal offense and is charged with it.
— holds a different opinion from that of the government.
— parked his car wrongly and it is towed away.
 Freedom of expression in Germany means that I...

— may claim false facts on leaflets.
— ✓ can express my opinion in letters to the editor.
— May wear Nazi symbols.
— May speak my mind as long as I don't contradict the government.
What does a lay judge do in Germany? He she …

— ✓ decides with judges on guilt and punishment.
— gives legal advice to citizens.
— issues certificates.
— defends the accused.
Who advises people in Germany on legal issues and represents them in court?

— ✓ a lawyer
— a judge
— a lay judge
— a public prosecutor
What is the main task of a judge in Germany? A judge...

— represents citizens before a court.
— ✓ works in a court and renders judgements.
— changes laws.
— looks after young people in court.
A judge in Germany belongs to the …

— ✓ Judiciary.
— Executive.
— Operational.
- Legislative branch.
In Germany, a judge belongs to the …

— executive power.
— ✓ Judicial power.
— planning violence.
— legislative power.
In Germany, state authority is shared. For which state authority does a judge work? For the …

— ✓ Judiciary.
— Executive.
- Press.
- Legislative branch.
What is a procedure before a court called in Germany?

— program
— procedure
- Protocol
— ✓ Process
What is the work of a judge in Germany?

— Rule Germany
— ✓ do justice
— Make plans
— make laws
What is the task of the police in Germany?

— to defend the country
— wiretap the citizens
— to pass the laws
— ✓ monitor compliance with laws
Who can become a judge in Germany?

— all residents over the age of 18 who were born in Germany
— ✓ All German nationals older than 24 and younger than 70 years
— all persons who have been living in Germany for at least 5 years
— only people with a law degree
 What does the german constitution forbid?

— military service
— ✓ Forced labour
- free choice of employment
- Work abroad
A judge in Germany is …

— the deputy mayor.
— ✓ an honorary judge.
— a member of a municipal council.
— a person who studied law.
Who built the Berlin Wall?

- Great Britain
- the Federal Republic of Germany
— ✓ the GDR
- the USA
When were the Nazis in power with Adolf Hitler in Germany?

— 1918 to 1923
— 1932 to 1950
— ✓ 1933 to 1945
— 1945 to 1989
What was May 8, 1945?

— Death of Adolf Hitler
— Beginning of the construction of the Berlin Wall
— Konrad Adenauer was elected Chancellor
— ✓ End of World War II in Europe
When did World War II end?

— 1933
— ✓ 1945
— 1949
— 1961
When were the Nazis in power in Germany?

— 1888 to 1918
— 1921 to 1934
— ✓ 1933 to 1945
— 1949 to 1963
In what year Hitler became Chancellor?

— 1923
— 1927
— ✓ 1933
— 1936
In 1933, the National Socialists with Adolf Hitler established in Germany ...

— ✓ a dictatorship.
— a democratic state.
- a monarchy.
— a principality.
The Third Reich was a …

— ✓ Dictatorship.
— Democracy.
— monarchy.
— Soviet Republic.
What didn't exist in Germany during the Nazi era?

— ✓ free elections
— press censorship
— arbitrary arrests
— Persecution of the Jews
 When is freedom of expression restricted in Germany?

— ✓ in publicly disseminating false claims about individuals
— when expressing opinions about the Federal Government
— in discussions about religions
— when criticizing the state
Which war lasted from 1939 to 1945?

— the First World War
— ✓ the Second World War
— the Vietnam War
— the Gulf War
What characterized the Nazi state? A policy...

— ✓ of state racism
— freedom of speech
— general freedom of religion
— the development of democracy
Claus Schenk Graf von Stauffenberg is known for ...

— a gold medal at the 1936 Olympic Games.
— the construction of the Reichstag building.
— the structure of the Wehrmacht.
— ✓ the assassination attempt on Hitler on July 20, 1944.
In what year did the Nazis destroy synagogues and Jewish businesses in Germany?

— 1925
— 1930
— ✓ 1938
— 1945
What happened in Germany on November 9, 1938?

— The Second World War begins with the attack on Poland.
— The National Socialists lose an election and dissolve the Reichstag.
— ✓ Jewish shops and synagogues are destroyed by the National Socialists and their supporters.
— Hitler becomes President of the Reich and has all parties banned.
What was the name of the first Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany?

— ✓ Konrad Adenauer
— Kurt Georg Kiesinger
— Helmut Schmidt
- Willy Brandt
At which demonstrations in Germany did people shout "We are the people"?

— ✓ at the Monday demonstrations in 1989 in the GDR
— during the 1953 workers' uprising in the GDR
— at the 1968 demonstrations in the Federal Republic of Germany
— at the 1985 anti-nuclear demonstrations in the Federal Republic of Germany
Which countries were referred to as "Allied occupying powers" in Germany after World War II?

— Soviet Union, Great Britain, Poland, Sweden
— France, Soviet Union, Italy, Japan
— USA, Soviet Union, Spain, Portugal
— ✓ USA, Soviet Union, Great Britain, France
Which country was not an "allied occupying power" in Germany?

- USA
— Soviet Union
- France
— ✓ Japan
When was the Federal Republic of Germany founded?

— 1939
— 1945
— ✓ 1949
— 1951
 The German laws prohibit …

— Freedom of expression for residents.
— Citizens' petitions.
- Freedom of assembly of the inhabitants.
— ✓ Unequal treatment of citizens by the state.
What was happening in Germany during the Nazi era?

— the right to free development of personality
— freedom of the press
— ✓ the prohibition of parties
— the protection of human dignity
Social market economy means that the economy...

— is controlled solely by supply and demand.
— is planned and controlled by the state, supply and demand are not taken into account.
— depends on the demand abroad.
— ✓ depends on supply and demand, but the state ensures social balance.
In which occupation zone was the GDR founded? In the …

— American occupation zone.
— French occupation zone.
— British occupation zone.
— ✓ Soviet occupation zone.
The Federal Republic of Germany is a founding member...

— the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO).
— the United Nations (UN).
— ✓ the European Union (EU).
— the Warsaw Pact.
When was the DDR founded?

— 1947
— ✓ 1949
— 1953
— 1956
How many occupation zones were there in Germany after World War II?

— 3
— ✓ 4
— 5
— 6
How were the occupation zones of Germany distributed after 1945?

— 1=Great Britain, 2=Soviet Union, 3=France, 4=USA
— 1=Soviet Union, 2=Great Britain, 3=USA, 4=France
— ✓ 1=Great Britain, 2=Soviet Union, 3=USA, 4=France
— 1=Great Britain, 2=USA, 3=Soviet Union, 4=France
Which German city was divided into four sectors after World War II?

- Munich
— ✓ Berlin
— Dresden
— Frankfurt/Oder
From June 1948 to May 1949, the citizens of West Berlin were supplied by an airlift. What circumstance was responsible for this?

— For France, supplying the population of West Berlin by plane was cheaper.
— The American soldiers were afraid of being attacked during land transport.
— For Great Britain, supplies were quicker via the airlift.
— ✓ The Soviet Union cut off all overland traffic.
How did World War II officially end in Europe?

— with the death of Adolf Hitler
— ✓ by the unconditional surrender of Germany
— with the withdrawal of the Germans from the occupied territories
— by a revolution in Germany
 Which fundamental right is guaranteed in Article 1 of the Basic Law of the Federal Republic of Germany?

— ✓ the inviolability of human dignity
- the right to live
— freedom of religion
- Freedom of speech
The first Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany was...

— Ludwig Erhard.
- Willy Brandt.
— ✓ Konrad Adenauer.
- Gerhard Schröder.
What did Willy Brandt want to express when he fell on his knees in the former Jewish ghetto in Warsaw in 1970?

— He submitted to the former Allies.
— ✓ He asked Poland and the Polish Jews for forgiveness.
— He showed his humility before the Warsaw Pact.
— He said a prayer at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier.
Which parties were forcibly united in 1946 to form the SED, the unified party of what later became the GDR?

— ✓ KPD and SPD
— SPD and CDU
— CDU and FDP
— KPD and CSU
When was the "economic miracle" in the Federal Republic of Germany?

— 40s
— ✓ 50s
— 70s
— 80s
What did the people in Germany call “Zero Hour” for a very long time?

— This refers to the period after the fall of communism in 1989.
— This marked the start of the Second World War.
— ✓ This meant the end of the Second World War and the beginning of reconstruction.
— This refers to the hour when the clock changes from summer time to winter time.
What did the expression "Iron Curtain" stand for? For foreclosure...

— ✓ the Warsaw Pact against the West.
— Northern Germany versus Southern Germany.
— Nazi Germany versus the Allies.
— Europe vs. USA.
In 1953 there was an uprising in the GDR, which for a long time was commemorated by a public holiday in the Federal Republic of Germany. When was it?

- 1st of May
— ✓ June 17
- 20th of July
— November 9th
Which German state had a black, red and gold flag with a hammer, compass and wreath of corn?

— Prussia
- Federal Republic of Germany
— ✓ GDR
- "Third Reich"
In what year was the Berlin Wall built?

— 1953
— 1956
— 1959
— ✓ 1961
When did the GDR build the Berlin Wall?

— 1919
— 1933
— ✓ 1961
— 1990
 What is meant by the right of “freedom of movement” in Germany?

— ✓ You can choose your own place of residence.
— You can change your job.
— You can choose another religion.
— One may only move in public with light clothing.
What does the abbreviation GDR mean?

— Third German Radio
— The German Republic
— Third German Republic
— ✓ German Democratic Republic
When was the Berlin Wall opened to everyone?

— 1987
— ✓ 1989
— 1992
— 1995
Which of today's German federal states used to belong to the territory of the GDR?

— ✓ Brandenburg
- Bavaria
— Saarland
— Hesse
From 1961 to 1989 Berlin was...

— without the mayor.
— a separate state.
— ✓ divided by a wall.
— only accessible by plane.
On October 3rd, the Day of the Germans is celebrated in Germany...

— ✓ Unit.
— Nation.
- Federal states.
— cities.
Which of today's German federal states used to belong to the territory of the GDR?

— Hesse
— ✓ Saxony-Anhalt
— North Rhine-Westphalia
— Saarland
Why is the time in autumn 1989 in the GDR called "The Turn"? During this time, the GDR changed politically...

— ✓ from dictatorship to democracy.
— from a liberal market economy to socialism.
— from a monarchy to social democracy.
— from a religious state to a communist state.
Which of today's German federal states used to belong to the territory of the GDR?

— ✓ Thuringia
— Hesse
- Bavaria
— Bremen
Which of today's German federal states used to belong to the territory of the GDR?

- Bavaria
- Lower Saxony
— ✓ Saxony
— Baden-Wuerttemberg
In the GDR, the abbreviation "Stasi" meant...

- Parliament.
— ✓ the Ministry of State Security.
— a ruling party.
— the Ministry of National Education.
 In Germany, parents up to the age of 14 can decide whether at school their child should  ...

— attend history classes. 
— ✓ participate in religious education.
— attend political classes.
— participate in language classes.
 A party in Germany is pursuing the goal of establishing a dictatorship. She is then...

— tolerant.
- constitutionally oriented.
— law-abiding.
— ✓ unconstitutional.
Which of today's German federal states used to belong to the territory of the GDR?

— Hesse
— Schleswig-Holstein
— ✓ Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania
— Saarland
Which of the following lists only contains federal states that belonged to the territory of the former GDR?

— Lower Saxony, North Rhine-Westphalia, Hesse, Schleswig-Holstein, Brandenburg
— ✓ Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania, Brandenburg, Saxony, Saxony-Anhalt, Thuringia
— Bavaria, Baden-Württemberg, Rhineland-Palatinate, Thuringia, Saxony
— Saxony, Thuringia, Hesse, Lower Saxony, Brandenburg
To whom did the GDR belong in the "Cold War"?

— to the western powers
— ✓ to the Warsaw Pact
— to NATO
— to the non-aligned countries
What was the name of the economic system in the GDR?

— market economy
— ✓ planned economy
— supply and demand
— capitalism
How did the Federal Republic of Germany and the GDR become one state?

— The Federal Republic of Germany occupied the GDR.
— ✓ Today's five eastern federal states have joined the Federal Republic of Germany.
— The western federal states joined the GDR.
— The GDR occupied the Federal Republic of Germany.
With the accession of the GDR to the Federal Republic of Germany, the new federal states now also belong to ...

— ✓ to the European Union.
— to the Warsaw Pact.
— to OPEC.
— on the European Defense Community.
What did the word "Monday Demonstration" mean in Germany in 1989?

— In the Federal Republic, demonstrations were only allowed on Mondays.
— ✓ On Mondays there were demonstrations against the GDR regime.
— On the first Monday of the month, demonstrators met in the Federal Republic of Germany.
— On Mondays there were demonstrations in the GDR against the West.
Which military alliance was the GDR a member of?

— in NATO
— in the Confederation of the Rhine
— ✓ in the Warsaw Pact
— in the European Alliance
What was the "Stasi"?

— the secret service in the “Third Reich”
— a famous German memorial
— ✓ the secret service of the GDR
— a German sports club during World War II
What was the coat of arms of the German Democratic Republic?

- 1
— 2
— 3
— ✓ 4
 What is the coat of arms of the Federal Republic of Germany?

— ✓ 1
— 2
— 3
— 4
What happened on June 17, 1953 in the GDR?

— the solemn entry into the Warsaw Pact
— ✓ Nationwide strikes and popular uprising
— the 1st SED party congress
— Fidel Castro's first visit
Which politician stands for the “Eastern Treaties”?

- Helmut Kohl
— ✓ Willy Brandt
— Mikhail Gorbachev
— Ludwig Erhard
What is Germany's full name?

— State of Germany
— Federal states of Germany
— ✓ Federal Republic of Germany
— federal district of Germany
How many inhabitants does Germany have?

— 70 million
— 78 million
— ✓ 80 million
— 90 million
What color is the German flag?

— ✓ black-red-gold
— red-white-black
— black-red-green
— black-yellow-red
Who is called the "Chancellor of German Unity"?

- Gerhard Schröder
— ✓ Helmut Kohl
- Konrad Adenauer
— Helmut Schmidt
Which symbol can be seen in the plenary hall of the German Bundestag?

— the flag of the city of Berlin.
— ✓ the federal eagle.
— the imperial eagle.
— the imperial crown.
When did the German Democratic Republic (GDR) exist?

— 1919 to 1927
— 1933 to 1945
— ✓ 1949 to 1990
— 1945 to 1961
How many federal states were added to the Federal Republic of Germany after reunification in 1990?

— 4
— ✓ 5
— 6
— 7
The Federal Republic of Germany has had the borders of today since ...

— 1933.
— 1949.
— 1971.
— ✓ 1990.
 What kind of government does Germany have?

— monarchy
— dictatorship
— ✓ Republic
— Principality
January 27th is an official day of remembrance in Germany. What does this day remind you of?

— at the end of the Second World War
— to the adoption of the Basic Law
— to the reunification of Germany
— ✓ to the victims of National Socialism
Germany is a member of the Schengen Agreement. What does that mean?

— ✓ Germans can travel to many European countries without passport control.
— Everyone can enter Germany without identity checks.
— Germans can travel to any country without passport control.
— Germans can pay with the euro in every country.
Which country is a neighboring country of Germany?

— Hungary
— Portugal
— Spain
— ✓ Switzerland
Which country is a neighboring country of Germany?

- Romania
— Bulgaria
— ✓ Poland
- Greece
What does the abbreviation EU mean?

— European companies
— ✓ European Union
— Single Union
— Euro Union
What other country has a large German-speaking population?

- Czech Republic
— Norway
— Spain
— ✓ Austria
What is the flag of the European Union?

— ✓ 2
- 1
— 4
— 3
Which country is a neighboring country of Germany?

— Finland
— ✓ Denmark
— Norway
- Sweden
What is the general term for the accession of the GDR to the Federal Republic of Germany in 1990?

— NATO eastward expansion
— EU eastward enlargement
- European Community
— ✓ German reunification
Which country is a neighboring country of Germany?

— Spain
— Bulgaria
— Norway
— ✓ Luxembourg
 In Germany, most working population …

— ✓ Employed by a company or authority.
— employed in small family businesses.
— Voluntary work for a federal state.
— self-employed with his own company.
The European Parliament is elected regularly, namely every...

— ✓ 5 years.
— 6 years.
— 7 years.
— 8 years.
What does the term "European integration" mean?

— This refers to American immigrants in Europe.
— The term means stopping immigration to Europe.
— This refers to European emigrants in the United States.
— ✓ The term means the merger of European states to form the EU.
Who is elected in the European elections?

— the European Commission
— the countries that are allowed to join the EU
— the European Constitution
— ✓ MEPs
Which country is a neighboring country of Germany?

— ✓ Czech Republic
— Bulgaria
- Greece
— Portugal
Where is the seat of the European Parliament?

—London
—Paris
- Berlin
— ✓ Strasbourg
French President François Mitterrand and German Chancellor Helmut Kohl commemorate the dead of both world wars in Verdun. What objective of the European Union emerges from this meeting?

— Friendship between England and Germany
— Freedom to travel to all EU countries
— ✓ Peace and security in the countries of the EU
— uniform public holidays in the countries of the EU
How many member states does the EU have today?

— 21
— 23
— 25
— ✓ 27
In 2007 the 50th anniversary of the "Treats of Rome" was celebrated. What was the content of the contracts?

— Germany joins NATO
— ✓ Establishment of the European Economic Community (EEC)
— Germany's obligation to pay reparations
— Establishment of the Oder-Neisse line as the eastern border
Where does the European Parliament work?

— Paris, London and The Hague
— ✓ Strasbourg, Luxembourg and Brussels
— Rome, Bern and Vienna
— Bonn, Zurich and Milan
Through which treaties did the Federal Republic of Germany join forces with other states to form the European Economic Community?

— through the “Hamburg Treaties”
— ✓ through the "Roman Treaties"
— by the “Paris Treaties”
— through the “London Treaties”
 How many federal states does the Federal Republic of Germany have?

— 14
— 15
— ✓ 16
— 17
Since when do you pay with the euro in cash in Germany?

— 1995
— 1998
— ✓ 2002
— 2005
Mrs. Seger gives birth to a child. What does she have to do to receive parental allowance?

— She has to write to her health insurance company.
— She doesn't have to do anything because she automatically receives parental allowance.
— ✓ You must submit an application to the parental allowance office.
— She has to ask the employment office for permission.
Who decides whether a child goes to kindergarten in Germany?

- the State
— the federal states
— ✓ the parents / legal guardians
- The schools
Maik and Sybille want to hold a demonstration on the street with friends in their German place of residence. What do you have to do beforehand?

— You don't have to do anything. You can demonstrate anywhere in Germany at any time.
— ✓ You must register the demonstration.
— You can't do anything, because demonstrations are strictly forbidden in Germany.
— Maik and Sybille have to found a new association because only associations are allowed to demonstrate.
What school-leaving qualifications do you normally need to start studying at a university in Germany?

— ✓ the high school diploma
— a diploma
— the procuration
- a journeyman's examination
Who is not allowed to live together as a couple in Germany?

— Hans (20 years) and Marie (19 years)
— Tom (20 years) and Klaus (45 years)
— Sofie (35 years) and Lisa (40 years)
— ✓ Anne (13 years) and Tim (25 years)
At what age do you become an adult in Germany?

— 16
— ✓ 18
— 19
— 21
Question №247: A woman is pregnant. She is given special protection by the law shortly before and after the birth of her child. What is this protection called?

— maternity leave
— childbirth preparation
— ✓ Maternity leave
— childbed
The upbringing of children in Germany is primarily a task ...

— of the state.
— ✓ of the parents.
- the grandparents.
— of the schools.
Who is primarily responsible for raising children in Germany?

- the State
— ✓ the parents
- the relatives
- The schools
 What is not a federal state of the Federal Republic of Germany?

— North Rhine-Westphalia
— ✓ Alsace-Lorraine
— Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania
- Saxony-Anhalt
In Germany you have the best chance of finding a well-paid job if you...

— is catholic.
— ✓ is well educated.
— is a woman.
— is a member of a political party.
If you hit a child in Germany, ...

— it's nobody's business.
— is it just a matter for the family.
— one cannot be punished for it.
— ✓ you can be punished for it.
In Germany …

— ✓ You can only be married to one partner at a time.
— you can have several spouses at the same time.
— one must not marry again once one has been married.
— a woman must not remarry if her husband has died.
Where do you have to register if you move to Germany?

— ✓ at the registration office
— at the registry office
— at the regulatory office
— at the trade office
In Germany, married couples are allowed to divorce. In most cases, they have to observe the “year of separation” for this. What does that mean?

— The divorce process takes a year.
— Husband and wife are married for a year, then divorce is possible.
— Visitation rights for the children are valid for one year.
— ✓ Husband and wife lead their own lives separately for at least a year. After that, divorce is possible.
Parents in Germany who have problems bringing up their children can get help from ...

— regulatory office.
— School Board.
— ✓ Youth Welfare Office.
— Health department.
A couple would like to open a restaurant in Germany. What does it absolutely need?

— a permit from the police
— an approval of a party
— a permit from the registration office
— ✓ a restaurant permit from the competent authority
An adult woman would like to do the Abitur in Germany. She can do that on...

— a university.
— ✓ an evening school.
— a secondary school.
— a private university.
What is the youth welfare office allowed to do in Germany?

— It decides which school the child attends.
— ✓ It can take a child who is being beaten or starving from the family.
— It pays the child benefit to the parents.
— It checks whether the child attends a kindergarten.
The careers information center BIZ at the Federal Employment Agency in Germany helps with the …

— pension calculation.
— ✓ Apprenticeship search.
- Tax declaration.
- Health insurance.
 Germany is …

— a communist republic.
— ✓ a democratic and social federal state.
— a capitalist and social monarchy.
— a social and socialist federal state.
 In Germany, a child at school has …

— Right to unlimited free time.
— Freedom of choice for all subjects.
— Entitlement to school fees.
— ✓ Compulsory attendance.
A 30-year-old man wants to do his Abitur in Germany. Where can he do that? At …

— a university
— ✓ an evening school
— a secondary school
— a private university
 What does the principle of equal treatment mean in Germany?

— ✓ No one may be disadvantaged, e.g. because of a disability.
— You may discriminate against other people if there are sufficient personal reasons for doing so.
— No one may sue people if they have been discriminated against.
— It is the law for everyone to donate money annually to disadvantaged groups.
In Germany, young people from the age of 14 are liable to prosecution. This means: young people who are 14 years and older and violate criminal laws, ...

— ✓ are penalized.
— are treated like adults.
— share the punishment with their parents.
— will not be penalized.
For which festival do people in Germany wear colorful costumes and masks?

— ✓ on Shrove Monday
— on May Day
— at the Oktoberfest
- at Pentecost
Where do you have to go first in Germany if you want to get married?

— to the registration office
— to the regulatory office
— to the Employment Agency
— ✓ to the registry office
When does the statutory night rest start in Germany?

- when the sun goes down
— ✓ at 10 p.m
— when the neighbors go to sleep
— at midnight, midnight
Question №267: A young woman in Germany, 22 years old, lives with her boyfriend. The woman's parents don't like it because they don't like her boyfriend. What can parents do?

— ✓ You must respect the decision of the adult daughter.
— You have the right to bring the daughter back to the parental home.
— You can go to the police and report the daughter.
— They are looking for another man for the daughter.
A young woman wants to get her driver's license. She is afraid of the exam because her mother tongue is not German. What is right?

— She has to live in Germany for at least ten years before she can get her driver's license.
— ✓ She might be able to do the theory test in her mother tongue. There are more than ten languages ​​to choose from.
— If she doesn't speak German, she mustn't have a driver's license.
— She has to get her driver's license in the country where her language is spoken.
In Germany, children from the age of three until they start school are entitled to …

— monthly pocket money.
— ✓ a kindergarten place.
— a place in a sports club.
— a holiday pass.
 Germany is …

— a socialist state.
— ✓ a state.
— a dictatorship.
- a monarchy.
The adult education center in Germany is an institution …

— for religious education.
— only for teenagers.
— ✓ for further training.
— only for pensioners.
What is a Christmas custom in Germany?

— Hide colored eggs
— ✓ decorate a Christmas tree
— dress up with masks and costumes
— Put pumpkins in front of the door
Which way of life is not allowed in Germany?

— Husband and wife are divorced and living together with new partners.
— Two women live together.
— A single father lives with his two children.
— ✓ A man is married to two women at the same time.
If you have problems bringing up your child in Germany...

— to the doctor.
— to the health department.
— to the registration office.
— ✓ to the youth welfare office.
You intentionally opened a letter in Germany that was addressed to someone else. What did you not notice?

— the right to remain silent
— ✓ the secrecy of correspondence
— the duty of confidentiality
— the freedom of speech
What do you need in Germany for a divorce?

— the consent of the parents
— a doctor's certificate
— the consent of the children
— ✓ the support of a lawyer
What should you do if you are treated badly by your contact person in a German authority?

- I can not do anything.
— I have to put up with this treatment.
— I threaten the person.
— ✓ I can complain to the head of the authority.
A woman who has a two-year-old child applies for a job in Germany. What is an example of discrimination? The only reason she doesn't get the job is because she...

— does not speak English.
— has too high salary expectations.
— has no experience in this profession.
— ✓ mother is.
A man in a wheelchair has applied for a job as an accountant. What is an example of discrimination? The only reason he doesn't get the job is because he...

— ✓ is in a wheelchair.
— has no experience.
— has too high salary expectations.
— does not speak English.
In most apartment buildings in Germany there are “house rules”. What does such a “house rule” say? She calls …

— Rules for using public transport.
— all tenants in the building.
— ✓ Rules that all residents must adhere to.
— the address of the nearest public order office.
 Germany is …

— a socialist state.
— ✓ a state.
— a dictatorship.
- a monarchy.
If you want to defend yourself against a false tax assessment in Germany, you must ...

- do nothing.
— throw away the notice.
— ✓ Submit an objection.
— wait until another message comes.
Two friends want to go to a public swimming pool in Germany. Both have a dark skin color and are therefore not allowed in. What right is violated in this situation? The right to …

- Freedom of speech
— ✓ Equal treatment
— freedom of assembly
— freedom of movement
Which voluntary work must German citizens take on if they are asked to do so?

— Club trainer
— Library supervisor
— ✓ Election worker
- Teacher
What do you do if you receive an incorrect invoice from a German authority?

— I'll leave the bill where it is.
— ✓ I am filing an objection with the authority.
— I send the bill back to the authorities.
— I'll take the invoice to the tax office.
What you have to be able to do for work will change very quickly in the future. What can you do?

— It doesn't matter what you learn.
— Children learn everything that is important in their job at school. You don't have to keep studying after school.
— ✓ Adults must continue to learn even after their training.
— Everyone has to stop working earlier because everything is changing.
Mrs. Frost works as a permanent employee in an office. What does she not have to pay from her salary?

— ✓ Sales tax
- Income tax
— Unemployment insurance contributions
— Contributions to pension and health insurance
Which organization in a company helps employees with problems with their employer?

— ✓ the works council
— the auditor
— the operating group
— the operational management
You would like to end your employment with a company in Germany. What do you have to consider?

— the salary payments
- the working hours
— ✓ the notice period
— the insurance obligation
At which office do you usually have to register your dog in Germany?

- at the tax office
- at the registration office
— ✓ at the municipality (city or municipality)
— at the health department
A dark-skinned man applies for a job as a waiter in a restaurant in Germany. What is an example of discrimination? The only reason he doesn't get the job is because...

— his knowledge of German is insufficient.
— he has too high salary expectations.
— ✓ he has dark skin.
— he has no professional experience.
 Which animal is the heraldic animal of the Federal Republic of Germany?

- Lion
— ✓ Eagle
— bear
- Horse
You bought a television in Germany. At home you unpack the TV, but it doesn't work. The tv is broken. What can they do?

— write an ad
— ✓ complain about the television
— replace the device without being asked
— extend the warranty
Why do you have to write down in your tax return in Germany whether you belong to a church or not? Because …

— which is important for statistics in Germany.
— ✓ there is a church tax linked to income and wage tax.
— you have to pay more taxes if you don't belong to a church.
— the church is responsible for the tax return.
The people in Germany live according to the principle of religious tolerance. What does that mean?

— No mosques may be built.
— All people believe in God.
— ✓ Anyone can believe whatever they want.
— The state decides which god people believe in.
What is a custom at Easter in Germany?

— Put pumpkins in front of the door
- decorate a Christmas tree
— ✓ Paint eggs
— Shoot rockets into the air
Pentecost is a …

— ✓ Christian holiday.
— German day of remembrance.
— international day of mourning.
— Bavarian custom.
Which religion shaped European and German culture?

— Hinduism
— ✓ Christianity
— Buddhism
- The islam
In Germany, the last four weeks before Christmas are called...

— the Day of Prayer and Repentance.
- Thanksgiving.
— ✓ the Advent season.
— All Saints Day.
From which country did most migrants come to Germany?

- Italy
— Poland
— Morocco
— ✓ Turkey
Question №298: It was mainly migrants from ... who lived in the GDR.

— ✓ Vietnam, Poland, Mozambique.
— France, Romania, Somalia.
— Chile, Hungary, Zimbabwe.
— North Korea, Mexico, Egypt.
Foreign workers who were recruited by the Federal Republic of Germany in the 1950s and 1960s were called...

— Undeclared workers
— ✓ Guest workers
— Temporary workers
— shift workers
 Germany is a constitutional state. What does that mean?

— ✓ All residents and the state must obey the law.
— The state does not have to obey the law.
— Only Germans have to obey the law.
- The courts make the laws.
 Was ist kein Merkmal unserer Demokratie?

— regelmäßige Wahlen
— ✓ Pressezensur
— Meinungsfreiheit
— verschiedene Parteien
From which country did the first guest workers come to the Federal Republic of Germany?

— ✓ Italy
— Spain
— Portugal
- Turkey
 The cooperation of parties to form a government is called in Germany ...

- Unit.
— ✓ coalition.
— Ministry.
— Faction.
 What is not state violence in Germany?

— legislation
- Government
— ✓ Press
— jurisprudence
 Which statement is correct? In Germany …

— ✓ State and religious communities are separated from each other.
— the religious communities form the state.
— the state is dependent on the religious communities.
— the state and religious communities form a unit.
 What is Germany not?

— a democracy
— a rule of law
— ✓ a monarchy
— a welfare state
 How does the German state finance social security?

— church taxes
— ✓ Social security contributions
— donation funds
— club fees
 Which measure creates social security in Germany?

— ✓ health insurance
— the car insurance
- the building insurance
- Liability Insurance
 What are the heads of government of most federal states in Germany called?

— First Minister
— Prime Minister
— Senator
— ✓ Prime Minister
 The Federal Republic of Germany is a democratic and social ...

— Union of States.
— ✓ State.
— Confederation of States.
— central state.
 What does each German federal state have?

— a separate foreign minister
- own currency
— an army of its own
— ✓ a separate government
 Which right is one of the fundamental rights in Germany?

— Gun ownership
— right of fight
— ✓ Freedom of expression
— vigilante justice
 What words does the German national anthem begin with?

— Folks, hear the signals…
— ✓ Unity and justice and freedom …
- Joy, beautiful spark of the gods …
- Germany United fatherland …
 Why is there more than one party in a democracy?

— ✓ because it represents the different opinions of the citizens
— to limit bribery in politics
— to prevent political demonstrations
— to stimulate economic competition
 Who decides a new law in Germany?

- the government
— ✓ the Parliament
- the courts
- the police
 When can a party be banned in Germany?

— if their election campaign is too expensive
— ✓ when she fights against the constitution
— when she expresses criticism of the head of state
— when their program suggests a new direction
 As a citizen in Germany, who cannot be elected directly?

— Members of the European Parliament
— ✓ the Federal President
— MPs
— Member of Parliament
 Which insurance does long-term care insurance belong to?

— ✓ Social security
— accident insurance
- Household insurance
— Liability and fire insurance
 The German state has many tasks. What task does it include?

— ✓ He builds roads and schools.
— He sells groceries and clothes.
— He supplies all residents with newspapers free of charge.
— He produces cars and buses.
 The German state has many tasks. Which task is not included?

— ✓ He pays for vacation trips for all nationals.
— He pays child support.
— He supports museums.
— He promotes athletes.
 Which organ does not belong to the constitutional organs of Germany?

- the Federal Council
- the Federal President / the Federal President
— ✓ the Citizens' Assembly
- the government
 Who in Germany decides about the school politics?

— the teachers
— ✓ the federal states
— the Ministry of Family Affairs
- the universities
 Elections in Germany are free. What does that mean?

— You can accept money if you choose a specific candidate for it.
— ✓ The voter must not be influenced during the election, nor forced to cast a particular vote, and must not suffer any disadvantages as a result of the election.
— Only people who have never been in prison are allowed to vote.
— All eligible voters must vote.
 The economic system in Germany is called …

— free central economy.
— ✓ social market economy.
— controlled central economy.
— planned economy.
 It is not part of a democratic constitutional state that ...

— People can express themselves critically about the government.
— Citizens are allowed to demonstrate peacefully.
— ✓ People being arrested by a private police without reason.
— someone commits a crime and is arrested as a result.
 What means sovereignty of the people"? All state power emanates from...

— ✓ people out.
— Bundestag out.
— Prussian king.
— Federal Constitutional Court.
 What does "rule of law" mean in Germany?

— The state is right.
— There are only right-wing parties.
— The citizens decide on laws.
— ✓ The state must comply with the law.
 What is not state violence in Germany?

- Legislative branch
— judiciary
— Executive
— ✓ Directive
 What does this picture show?

Building with two towers on the right and left of the facade, and a glass dome on the roof in the middle
— ✓ the seat of the Bundestag in Berlin
— the Federal Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe
— the Bundesrat building in Berlin
— the Federal Chancellery in Berlin
 Which office is part of the municipal administration in Germany?

— Parish Office
— ✓ Public order office
- Tax office
- Ministry of Foreign Affairs
 Who is most often elected President of the German Bundestag?

— the oldest Member of Parliament
— the prime minister of the largest federal state
— ✓ one MEP from the strongest political group
— a former Federal Chancellor
 Who appoints the ministers of the federal government in Germany?

— the President of the Federal Constitutional Court
— ✓ the Federal President
— the President of the Federal Council
— the President of the Bundestag
 Which parties became “Die Linke” in Germany in 2007?

— CDU and SSW
— ✓ PDS and WASG
— CSU and FDP
— Alliance 90/The Greens and SPD
 What is the german constitution called?

— People's Law
— federal law
- German law
— ✓ Basic Law
 In Germany, the Bundestag and the Bundesrat are part of the...

— Executive.
— ✓ Legislative.
— Directive.
— judiciary.
 What means sovereignty of the people"?

— The king/queen rules over the people.
— The Federal Constitutional Court stands above the constitution.
— The interest groups exercise sovereignty together with the government.
— ✓ State authority emanates from the people.
 When the parliament of a German federal state is elected, it is called...

— municipal election.
— ✓ State election.
— European elections.
— federal election.
 What does not belong to the executive branch in Germany?

- the police
— ✓ the courts
— the tax office
— the ministries
 The Federal Republic of Germany is divided into...

— four zones of occupation.
— an eastern state and a western state.
- 16 cantons.
— ✓ Federal, state and local governments.
 It is not one of the tasks of the German Bundestag to ...

— draft laws.
— control the federal government.
— to elect the Federal Chancellor.
— ✓ to form the federal cabinet.
 Who wrote the lyrics to the German national anthem?

- Friedrich von Schiller
— Clemens Brentano
- Johann Wolfgang von Goethe
— ✓ Heinrich Hoffmann von Fallersleben
 What is the main task of the federal states in Germany?

— defense policy
— foreign policy
— economic policy
— ✓ School policy
 Why does the state in Germany control the school system?

— because there are only state schools in Germany
— because all students must have a school-leaving certificate
— because there are different schools in the federal states
— ✓ because it is his task according to the Basic Law
 The Federal Republic of Germany has a three-tier administrative structure. What is the name of the lowest political level?

— Councillors
— District Administrators
— ✓ Municipalities and municipalities
— district offices
 Which right is one of the basic rights guaranteed by the German constitution? The right to …

— ✓ have freedom of belief and conscience
- have entertainment
- work
- to have an apartment
 In 1974, German Federal President Gustav Heinemann gave Helmut Schmidt the certificate of appointment as German Federal Chancellor. What are the duties of the German Federal President?

— He/She runs the affairs of state.
— He/She controls the ruling party.
— He/She selects the ministers.
— ✓ He / She proposes the Chancellor for election.
 Where does the German chancellor stay most often? Most often he/she is...

— in Bonn, because the Federal Chancellery and the Bundestag are located there.
— ✓ in Berlin, because the Federal Chancellery and the Bundestag are located there.
— at Schloss Meseberg, the guest house of the federal government, to receive state guests.
— at Bellevue Palace, the official residence of the Federal President, to receive state guests.
 What is the name of the current Chancellor of Germany?

- Gerhard Schröder
— Jürgen Rüttgers
— Klaus Wowereit
— ✓ Olaf Scholz
 The two largest parliamentary groups in the German Bundestag are currently called...

— ✓ CDU/CSU and SPD.
— The Left and Alliance 90/The Greens.
— FDP and SPD.
— Die Linke and FDP.
 What is the name of the parliament for all of Germany?

— Federal Assembly
— People's Chamber
— ✓ Bundestag
- Federal Court of Justice
 What is the name of the present german head of state?

— ✓ Frank-Walter Steinmeier
— Norbert Lammert
— Wolfgang Thierse
— Edmund Stoiber
 What does the abbreviation CDU mean in Germany?

— Christian German Union
— Club of German Entrepreneurs
— Christian German environmental protection
— ✓ Christian Democratic Union
 What is the Bundeswehr?

— the German police
— a German port
— a German citizens' initiative
— ✓ the German army
 What does the abbreviation SPD mean?

— Socialist Party of Germany
— Social Political Party of Germany
— ✓ Social Democratic Party of Germany
— Socially Just Party of Germany
 What does the abbreviation FDP mean in Germany?

— Peaceful Demonstrative Party
— Free Germany Party
— Leading Democratic Party
— ✓ Free Democratic Party
 What is not in the Basic Law of Germany?

- Human dignity is inviolable.
— ✓ Everyone should have the same amount of money.
— Everyone is allowed to express their opinion.
— All are equal before the law.
 Which court in Germany is responsible for the interpretation of the Basic Law?

— Higher Regional Court
- District Court
— ✓ Federal Constitutional Court
— administrative court
 Who elects the Federal Chancellor in Germany?

- the Federal Council
- the Federal Assembly
— the people
— ✓ the Bundestag
 Who heads the German federal cabinet?

— the President of the Bundestag
- the Federal President / the Federal President
— ✓ the Federal Chancellor
— the President of the Federal Council
 Who elects the German Chancellor?

— the people
- the Federal Assembly
— ✓ the Bundestag
- the federal government
 What is the main task of the German Federal President? He she …

— rules the country.
— drafts the laws.
— ✓ represents the country.
- monitors compliance with the law.
 Of whom does the Federal Assembly consist?

— the members of the Bundestag
— the ministers of the federal government
— ✓ the government representatives of the federal states
— the party members
 Who elects the Federal President in Germany?

— ✓ the Federal Assembly
- the Federal Council
— the Federal Parliament
- the Supreme Court
 Who is the head of state of the Federal Republic of Germany?

— the Federal Chancellor
— ✓ the Federal President
— the President of the Federal Council
— the President of the Bundestag
 The parliamentary opposition in the German Bundestag …

— ✓ controls the government.
— decides who becomes Federal Minister.
— determines who sits in the Bundesrat.
— proposes the heads of government of the countries.
 What do you call the association of members of a party in parliament in Germany?

- Association
— Council of Elders
— ✓ faction
— opposition
 Which basic right only applies to foreigners in Germany? The fundamental right to...

- Protection of the family
- Human dignity
— ✓ Asylum
- Freedom of speech
 The German federal states are involved in federal legislation through ...

— ✓ the Federal Council.
- the Federal Assembly.
— the Bundestag.
- the federal government.
In Germany, a change of government in a federal state can have an impact on federal politics. Governing will...

— More difficult if this changes the majority in the Bundestag.
— Easier if this brings new parties into the Bundesrat.
— ✓ More difficult if this changes the majority in the Bundesrat.
— easier if it is a rich federal state.
What does the abbreviation CSU mean in Germany?

— Christian Secure Union
— Christian South German Union
— Christian Social Entrepreneurs Association
— ✓ Christian Social Union
The more “second votes” a party gets in a federal election, the …

— ✓ the party gets more seats in parliament.
— it can have fewer first votes.
— More direct candidates from the party are moving into parliament.
— the risk of having to form a coalition is greater.
At what age can you take part in elections to the German Bundestag in Germany?

— 16
— ✓ 18
— 21
— 23
What applies to most children in Germany?

— compulsory voting
— ✓ Compulsory schooling
— Confidentiality
— Religious duty
What must every German citizen over the age of 16 possess?

— a passport
— ✓ an identity card
— a social security card
- a driving license
What do you automatically pay in Germany if you are permanently employed?

— ✓ Social security
- Social care
— child support
— housing benefit
When MPs in the German Bundestag change their parliamentary groups, ...

— ✓ the government may lose its majority.
— they are no longer allowed to attend the sittings of Parliament.
— the Federal President must give his/her consent beforehand.
— the voters of these MPs may vote again.
Who pays for social security in Germany?

— ✓ Employers and employees
— employees only
— all nationals
— employers only
